================
Data Aggregation
================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. include:: /includes/introduction-aggregation.rst

Concepts
--------

The primary tool for data aggregation is the :manual:`aggregation
pipeline </core/aggregation-pipeline>`, which is a stage-based method
for describing a sequence of data processing steps. The aggregation
process begins with all of the documents in a :term:`collection`, and
then passes these documents through a sequence of steps.

The aggregation pipeline supports a set of :ref:`pipeline stage operators
<aggregation-expression-operators>` which each describe a data
processing step. For example, the :pipeline:`$match` performs a basic
query, like the :method:`~db.collection.find()` method and passes only
documents that match a query expression to the next stage of the
pipeline. Similarly, you can use the :pipeline:`$project` to discard
specific fields from a document or add computed values to the
documents as they pass through a stage.

Consider the following diagram of a pipeline:

.. include:: /images/aggregation-pipeline.rst

Examples
--------

Additional Information
----------------------

See the :manual:`Aggregation documentation </aggregation>` in the
MongoDB Manual. Also consider the complete :manual:`Aggregation
Operator Reference </reference/operator/aggregation>`, and if  you're
familiar with data aggregation in databases that support SQL, consider
the :manual:`SQL to Aggregation Mapping Chart
</reference/sql-aggregation-comparison>`. Also, you may find the
:manual:`zip code aggregation example set
</tutorial/aggregation-zip-code-data-set>` and the :manual:`user
preference aggregation example set
</tutorial/aggregation-with-user-preference-data>` useful as you
become familiar with data aggregation in MongoDB.
